Confuciusornis, the "Confucius
Bird," is a well-documented
genus of animals from the Yixian and
Jiufotang Formations in China. With
a length of fifty centimeters and a
wingspan of seventy centimeters, the
confuciusornis was not very
different from modern birds. It was 
one of the earliest birds known to 
have a toothless beak, despite 
being closely related to more recent
birds possessing teeth. The wing 
feathers also appear modern, but
have different structure compared to
modern birds. Fossils of its wings
include many fossilized melanosomes, 
cells that contain pigment; because
of this, we know the likely colors 
of the confuciusornis were grey, 
red/brown, and black, similar to the
zebra finch. The wings were probably
white with the long tail feathers 
being dark down their entire length. 

The confuciusornis suffered from 
limiations during flight, such as 
limited wing amplitude and
insufficient feather strength, and
these findings challenge the
conventional belief that confucius-
ornis was a competent flier. 
Fossils of confuciusornis, similar 
to compsognathus, show the contents
of its belly. Confuciusornis was 
piscivorous, catching and feeding
upon small Cretaceous fish with its 
beak. It commonly fell prey to 
small- and medium-sized carnivores, 
such as sinocalliopteryx.
