Gallimimus, the "Chicken Mimic," 
looks very much like an ostrich
and moves like one too. With a 
maximum height of two meters and a
maximum length of eight meters, this
interesting dinosaur was about the 
same size as a human but much longer
and faster. Its long limbs and 
strong, hollow bones assisted in
very fast running, which helped it 
get from place to place and escape 
predators if need be. Its long, 
stiff tail served as a counter-
balance while running. Unlike other 
members of its family Ornitho-
mimidae, it had short hands and an
elongated skull due to its long 
snout.

Roamed across Mongolia during the 
late Cretaceous Period, gallimimus
likely lived around rivers and 
lakes. Gallimimus may have been an
omnivore with a herbivore-styled
beak. However, the structure of the 
beak also harkens to beak structures
of ducks, which are used to strain
food items from water. With this in
mind, the gallimimus probably fed
upon aquatic invertebrates, insects,
and plants. The wide variety in
gallimimus's diet was supported by
the sediments of the Nemegt 
Formation, which indicate a rich and
diverse habitat. On top of its
interesting eating habits and swift
movement, gallimimus struts right 
into the hearts of its fans as
with evidence of feathers, which is
quite the "trend" among theropods.
