Mosasaurus, the "Lizard of the Meuse
River," was amongst the last of the 
mosasaurs before the Cretaceous-
Paleogene mass extinction event.
With the largest species being up to
seventeen meters long, mosasaurus 
was a force of nature within the 
oceans of the Cretaceous. Mosasaurus
was more robustly built compared to 
its tylosaurine relatives. Its 
strong tail provided propulsion in
the water while its stiff body 
reduced drag. It suffered from poor 
binocular vision and smell, which 
meant it likely lived near the ocean 
surface rather than deeper waters 
where there is more light and less
pressure.

Policing the waters of North America
and Western Europe, mosasaurus was 
an undisputed king of the seas. As 
an apex predator, and all trembled
in the presence of it. Armed and 
dangerous, it was a carnivore and 
piscivore, feeding upon marine 
reptiles and the various fishes in 
of the Cretaceous Period with its
massive, conical teeth. It preyed
upon turtles and ammonites in 
addition to plesiosaurs and smaller
fellow mosasaurids and  at the
surface of the ocean. With its
paddle-like fins and strong tail, 
the water was almost always bloody
in the world of the mosasaurs.
