Nautilus, the "Sailor," is easily
the coolest mollusc of the sea, of
which Captain Nemo is a fan. Like
the coelacanth, nautilus is a living
fossil that has remained virtually 
the same over millions of years, and
it is the only member of its family 
to do so. Since its introduction
during the Triassic Period, it
survived the Cretaceous-Paleogene
Extinction Event and far beyond
that. Nowadays, one can find
nautilus in deep waters of the Indo-
Pacific Ocean, which spans across 
Southeast Africa, the Indian Ocean,
Southeast Asia, Oceania, and the 
Pacific, but there are a few places
where they can be found in shallow 
waters.

Through a system in its living
chamber, nautilus employs jet
propulsion to adjust buoyancy;
unlike other animals, this lets
safely move from deep waters
directly to the surface without
damage due to the reduced pressure. 
Nautilus' poor vision suggests that 
it uses smell for foraging and for
locating potential mates. Nautilus
lives far longer than most 
cephalopods, twenty years, but
they typically reach sexual maturity 
at fifteen. These creatures are 
scavengers and opportunistic 
predators, eating the molts of 
lobsters, hermit crabs, and carrion. 
They sure seem to enjoy some mighty 
fine chicken too.
