Pachycephalosaurus, the "Thick-
Headed Lizard," is a widely popular
dinosaur due to the theory that it
used its iconic dome-shaped head to
ram into each other like bighorn 
sheep. However, this theory has been 
losing its charm in the scientific 
community as new evidence develops.
They likely did use their skulls for
some form of combat due to several
paleopathologies fossilized on their 
skulls, but their anatomy does not
support a head-butting attack. But 
at four and a half meters long, one
and a half tall, with a twenty-five
centimeter thick skull, male pachy-
cephalosaurus could still pack a 
punch no matter how they're 
fighting. Females likely had thinner
skulls than males due to the fact 
that they did not need to fight 
other females.

Pachycephalosaurus' western United
States home was a mild to sub-
tropical coastal plain at the end of
the Cretaceous Period. Their small
teeth were probably used to nibble on
soft plant matter as they roamed the
countryside. They lived there 
alongside fan-favorite herbivores 
like ankylosaurus and triceratops 
and also with the fearsome killer 
tyrannosaurus. The presence of two
smaller, less developed pachycepha-
losaurids, dracorex and stygimoloch, 
leads paleontologists to think that 
these species may represent growth 
stages of pachycephalosaurus instead 
of distinct taxa.
