Sarcosuchus, the "Flesh Crocodile,"
puts the modern saltwater crocodile
to shame. At an unbelievable twelve
meters long, sarcosuchus was likely 
the largest crocodile to ever live.
It achieved this immense size by
growing rapidly, spending less time
as a vulnerable smallfry. It had a 
very toothy grin, with one hundred 
and thirty-one teeth per animal and
no doubt had a wicked offensive 
system. For defense, sarcosuchus'
back was adorned with a complete
covering of osteoderms. This would
keep it protected while it floated
on the surface of the water in search 
of food. If its land-living prey
decided to fight back against this
wide maw of certain death, the
osteoderms would without doubt have 
deflected it.

Living in the freshwater tropical
paradise that is now the Sahara
Desert, sarcosuchus had a veritable
buffet set out before it. Among the
most common species that it 
coexisted with were iguanodontids 
and species of coelacanth, which
would have often been on the menu. 
As vicious ambush predators, these
hapless creatures would find
themselves locked within the jaws
of sarcosuchus when caught unawares,
but it is safe to say, though, that
no matter how this creature ate, 
one would not want to find himself
face-to-teeth with it.
