Spinosaurus, the "Spine Lizard," is 
the subject of a heated debate in 
the scientific community. One thing
that is not debated, though, is the
shear size of the monstrosity - with
a length of over fifteen meters and
a sail height of over one and a half
meters, spinosaurus was quite 
possibly the biggest carnivore to 
ever live. Prior to 2014, spino-
saurus was thought to have a fairly
normal theropod body style, with its
body resting on top of long legs.
However, a study soon claimed that 
spinosaurus had short hind legs and 
walked on all fours. This 
quadrupedal model set the paleont-
ology world reeling. While some
scientists and fans accept this new
model, most people do not because of
a slew of errors made in the study.

Despite the controversy over its
anatomy, there is still much that 
scientists can agree on. Spinosaurus
lived from the Albian to the 
Cenomanian ages of the Cretaceous 
Period in what is now Northern 
Africa. Its environment was likely
very wet, and it probably spent a 
great deal of time in the water. A 
proficient hunter both on land and 
in the water, spinosaurus posed a 
huge threat to every creature that 
dared to near it. Its dangerous 
jaws, over a meter long, could 
handle all manners of prey. It also 
was likely very opportunistic, 
never passing up the chance for an
easy catch or scavenged carcass.
